---
layout: post
title:  "Systemd Commarch Report"
date:   2016-03-13 20:30:00
categories: blog
---

**Project Links**

* [The project's IRC Channel][irc]
* [Source Code repository][repo]
* Mailing Lists
    * [General Development and Technical Discussion][gen_mail]
    * [Commits][commits_mail]
* [Documentation][documentation] 
* [Google+][google+]
* [Project Website and/or Blog][website]

**A. Describe software project, its purpose and goals.**

systemd is a system management daemon that originally aimed to replace
traditional System V style initialization (“init”) systems. Since achieving
that original goal, it has expanded to take on other roles throughout the
system, such as session management and being the primary Linux cgroup tracker.
The project leaders make it clear that systemd is intended to be used
exclusively on Linux and therefore does not make any attempt at portability to
other POSIX or Unix-like systems (such as FreeBSD).

**B. Give brief history of the project. When was the Initial Commit? The latest
commit?**

There are three initial commits for the systemd project:

    6091827530d6dd43479d6709fb6e9f745c11e900
    Lennart Poettering <lennart@poettering.net> on 11/18/09
    6b21f0cf45ea2a8cd5926393a4c056b3a716c8af
    lennart <lennart@[...]> on 11/19/05
    f0083e3d4eb49e11fd7e37532dc64a6e6f5d4039
    Greg KH <greg@press.(none)> on 04/19/05

Most recent commit:

    ed0b16e2792e2e7cd6591da053ef5f737736a98d
    Ronny Chevalier <chevalier.ronny@gmail.com> on 03/12/16
    Merged PR #2828

**C. Who approves patches? How many people?**

Anyone in the Github Organaization for systemd could apporve patchest to the
project. There are 15 people in the Github Organization, however only about 5
of them regularly review and approve patches.

**D. Who has commit access, or has had patches accepted? How many total?**

The only people with direct push access to the repository are the 15
afformentioned pepole in the Github Organization for the project.

There has been 775 unique contributors whos patches have been accepted.

**E. Who has the highest amounts of "Unique Knowledge?" (As per your
"Git-by-a-bus" report. If there is a tie, list each contributor, with links if
possible)**

We were unable to use git-by-a-bus for this project as it was too big.

Git-by-a-truck reported that Lennart Poettering had the highest amount of
"unique knowledge", which would make sense as he the most number of commits
for the project, coming in at 9,188. (~6,000 more than the next highest
contibutor)

**F. What is your project's "Callaway’s Coefficient of Fail?"**

Systemd scored a perfect 0 on Callaway’s Coefficient of Fail.

This can be attributed to the large userbase of systemd, the large and active
development community of systemd, and the incredibly vast amount of
documentation and communication resources which have been critical to the
ability of systemd to survive for this long.

**G. Has there been any turnover in the Core Team? (i.e. has the same top 20%
of contributors stayed the same over time? If not, how has it changed?)**

The top contributors have mostly stayed the same throughout the life of the
project so far.

**H. Does the project have a BDFL, or Lead Developer? (BDFL == Benevolent
Dictator for Life)**

Lennart Poettering and Kay Sievers are the clear Benevolent Dicatators for
life. Besides having an absurdly large number of contributions, they generally
have final say on the overall direction and development of the project.

**I. Are the front and back end developers the same people? What is the
proportion of each? **

systemd doesn't really have front and back ends. Everyone contributes to all
submodules of the project.

**J. What have been some of the major bugs/problems/issues that have arisen
during development? Who is responsible for quality control and bug repair?**

**K. How is the project's participation trending and why?**

The project's participation has been a steady growth since its start in 2003,
and can best be explained by the vast increase in scope since its inception
as well as the variability in its use across a large number of platforms.

**L. In your opinion, does the project pass "The Raptor Test?" (i.e. Would the
project survive if the BDFL, or most active contributor were eaten by a
Velociraptor?) Why or why not?**

If one of the two BDFLs was eaten by a velociraptor the project would most
likely survive as both have incredibly large amounts of knowledge of the
project and have a shared vision for its direction. If both of the BDFLs
were eaten by a velociraptor, the project would also still survive due to 
the amount of other large contibutors to the project. The vision for the
direction of the project would most likely remain intact because if the 
other main developers didn't believe in the vision for the project, they would
have most likey left a long time ago.

**M. In your opinion, would the project survive if the core team, or most
active 20% of contributors, were hit by a bus? Why or why not?**

If the entire core team of developers were to get hit by a bus, the project
would most likely still survive. There are so many crucial systems that rely
on systemd that it is almost certain that a group of people would step in to
take over the project. systemd is so well documented that the new maintainers
would be able to figure out the project realtively quickly. However, in order
for the project to survive, whoever took over the project would need the
support of the rest of the systemd community as a conflicting vision of the
direction of the project could cause conflict in the community.

If 20% of the most active contributors were hit by a bus, 155 people would die
and would be an international tragedy.

**N. Does the project have an official "on-boarding" process in place? (new
contributor guides, quickstarts, communication leads who focus specifically on
newbies, etc...)**

The project has a contributors guide which can be found on Github. There is no
clear communication lead, but the IRC channel is very responsive to people who
are interested in the project.

**O. Does the project have Documentation available? Is it extensive?
        Does it include code examples?**

There is extensive documentation for systemd in both text and video form. 

**P. If you were going to contribute to this project, but ran into trouble or
hit blockers, who would you contact, and how?**

If I ran into trouble or hit blockers, I would either ask a question in IRC or
I would post to the mailing list with a detailed description of the problem.

**Q. Based on these answers, how would you describe the decision making
structure/process of this group? Is it hierarchical, consensus building, ruled
by a small group, barely contained chaos, or ruled by a single or pair of
individuals?**

The decisions making is mostly done by a small group of the main core
contributors.

**R. Is this the kind of structure you would enjoy working in? Why, or why
not?**

Yes, because the community is very responsive and has a clear plan.

[irc]: irc.freenode.org (#systemd)
[repo]: https://github.com/systemd/systemd/issues
[gen_mail]: http://lists.freedesktop.org/mailman/listinfo/systemd-devel
[commits_mail]: http://lists.freedesktop.org/mailman/listinfo/systemd-commits
[documentation]: https://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/systemd/
[website]: https://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/systemd/
[google+]: https://plus.google.com/104232583922197692623
