---
layout: post
title:  "Bugfix"
date:   2016-02-21 08:30:50
categories: homework blog
---

For this assignment, I was tasked with fixing a bug in a FOSS project.


### Project Selection 

To make environment setup easier, I decided to pick a project of which I was
already familiar. 

Noticing that the was several bugs recently opened up in the website for RIT's
Society of Software Engineers, I decided I would try tackling one of them.

The website is composed of several projects on Github. For this assignment I
choose to work on an issue from the
[scoreboard project](https://github.com/rit-sse/scoreboard-2.0)
which is a tool to helpkeep track of who has membership in the organization. 

### Bug Selection

This project keeps track of it's bugs through Github issues. I decided to work
on a small issue which involved a column in a table not sorting correctly.

Since I knew the owner of the repository, I was able to get myself added to the
project which allowed me to directly assign the issue to myself. This way,
other contributors could see I was working on it and we could avoid duplication
of effort.

### Fixing the Bug

Since I was added to the project, I was able to create my own branch to work
off of instead of having to fork the project. Following the instructions in the
readme for the repository, I was able to setup my developer environment with no
real trouble. 

I was able to fix the problem in less than an hour. I promptly commited and 
pushed my code.

I then created a
[pull request](https://github.com/rit-sse/scoreboard-2.0/pull/31)
to merge my branch into the main development branch.

Unfortunately, my pull requuest was not merged in right away as there was a
problem. A continuos integration (CI) server checks to make sure that any code
submitted in a pull request build properly and that server was having issues
unrelated to my pull request.
