---
layout: post
title:  "Open Source Badge Program"
date:   2016-05-08 14:30:00
categories: blog
---

When I'm looking for an open source library to use for a project, I frequently
run into a problem in that I'm unsure of the quality of the libraries I'm
using. Quite frequently, I judge a project purely by its popularity, such as
how many stars the project has on Github.

This week, the Core Infrastructure Intiative released a possible solution to
this problem by introducing the [Best Practices Badge Program][badge_app], a
quality certification program for open source projects. Open source project
maintainers can submit their projects for certifciation through a website which
asks them answer a series of questions to determine if they follow best
practices in areas such as security, bug reporting, and change control. Once
the projects are approved, they gain access to a certification badge that they
can include with their project.

The idea being that the certification badge will be a clear indicator to
potential users that the project is following best practices and can be trusted
for use in any setting.

The base criteria for best practices have been taken from other project quality
analysis tools such as the Calloway Coefficent of Fail, the Wheeler OSS
Evaluation Model, and the OWASP Application Security Verification Standard.
Additionally, best practice criteria is taken from highly successful open
source projects such as OpenSSH, LibreOffice, and the Linux kernel. The Best
Practices Badge Program itself is an opensource project and they encourage
people to review and propose changes to the quality standard.

One of the biggest hurdles I see for this project will be spreading community
knowledge of its existence. As of writing this post, there are only 131
projects who have applied for the certification. Hopefully the adoption rate of
this project will rise, as this is something I would greatly benefit from in my
day to day work.

[badge_app]: https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/
